---
tags:
  - smith-noaa
date: 2025-09-20
---
Dear Members of the Selection Committee,
I am thrilled to submit my application to the David H. Smith Research Fellowship in Conservation Biology. In this letter, I will outline why past experiences, expertise, and proposed research make me an ideal candidate for this fellowship, and why I am confident it will provide a platform to achieve my vision of becoming a leader in the field of conservation.
My journey in conservation began during my undergraduate degree, when I was hired to lead a team to assess the conservation status of the Spanish toothcarp (_Aphanius iberus_) in a protected marshland near Barcelona, my hometown. Despite hundreds of hours wading through mud up to my waist under an unforgiving sun, the most challenging part of this experience was, by far, sharing what I found with the people in charge. My findings sparked a screaming match between the authorities of the nearby airport, eager to expand their runways by building over the habitats of the toothcarp, and the conservation managers who had hired me. I sat there silently, and I vividly remember thinking: "This fish is lost."
This experience led me to believe that navigating the balance between preserving nature and meeting human needs was almost impossible. However, seven years and four countries later, I have had the privilege of learning from conservation practitioners, researchers, and local community members whose passion and commitment have inspired and given me hope. For example, through my collaboration with the Nevada Department of Wildlife, I have seen firsthand how, with minimal resources, plans are being developed to protect lizards against the expanse of renewable energy projects. I admire these folks, who, against impossible odds, carry out their work with unwavering passion and, more often than not, succeed. Planning and implementing conservation is hard, and that is precisely what attracts me to the challenge and why I want to do my part.
My path has been marked by challenges. One of the most significant of these occurred during the second year of my PhD, when the study system that was supposed to be the focus of my research was completely lost due to issues caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Facing this adversity, I persevered and, in the span of a few weeks, built a new local system from scratch. Against all odds, this system was a success, as it enabled multiple research projects, as well as collaborations with local outreach and management organizations. This experience has shown me that I am good at transforming a challenging situation into an opportunity. Now, I am committed to applying this skill toward the conservation of lizards and snakes, animals that I am passionate about and that I believe I can help protect.
My project is not only highly relevant, as it focuses on a taxonomic group that severely lacks updated conservation insight, but it is also uniquely positioned to succeed and have maximum impact. This is due to my experiences, expertise, the exceptional team of sponsors I have assembled, and, especially, my direct partnership with the IUCN. Given the IUCN's position as the global authority on conservation and the source that practitioners and policymakers rely on, this collaboration will ensure that my efforts have a direct impact on plans and policies. Furthermore, this opportunity places me in an ideal position to develop a network of collaborators that will open the door to future projects and career avenues.  
My journey has been defined by a passion for research and conservation, and a proven ability to turn adversity into opportunity. The lessons I learned, from the early challenges in Barcelona to the setbacks and successes of my PhD project, have prepared me to be a resilient and strategic leader. I am confident that the Smith Fellowship will not only provide the ideal platform to produce much-needed extinction risk assessments for U.S. lizards and snakes but will also enable me to put these lessons to use, establishing a career focused on direct, meaningful impact in the field.
Thank you for taking the time to review my application, and I remain at your disposal for any questions you may have.

Sincerely,

Guillermo Garcia Costoya.
PhD. Candidate, Department of Biology and Ecology, Evolution & Conservation Biology Program.
University of Nevada, Reno.