---
tags:
  - other
date: 2025-09-27
---
link to the source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a1XGTAB13aM
What combination of life circumstances would lead "Beck" Martin to participate in X factor with his hit song "Friday night"? Enters a man, in his late 20s, perhaps early 30s into the audition of X factor. He is not particularly handsome, keeps his slightly balding head short and spiked with wax and wears and incredibly tight black polo and pants. His early demeanor is shy, his eyes tell me that, but he tries to portray a confident attitude. A weird mismatch between his facial and body expressions. I am already intrigued.
One of the judges asks "What brought you here?". He does not hesitate (maybe its the editing of the video that made it seem that quick, I don't know) and replies "I had goals and dreams and I was...sort of chasing them". What were those goals "Beck"? Did you want to become a musician? What do you mean "sort of"? Was it because other forces prevented you from doing so or because you never quite find the time? Even better, did you ever find the courage to abandon whatever it was you were doing to chase these dreams? Do you mean "sort of" because you were not fully clear on what those dreams were? Anyway, let's continue. 
Nigel, that "pretending to be mean" judge from X-factor asks him whether he works and what he does. To the first question he answers "I do, yeah, I do" with a resignation in his voice, like when it rains and the train is late and you just say to yourself "Nothing I can do". Then, to the second question (and allow me to say that this is one of the parts that fascinates me the most) he replies "I work really hard, I work as a gym instructor" obvious so far if I may add "and as a manager at McDonald's". The is absolutely insane. Does this man realize that he has a net zero impact on the health of society? Is he aware of the contradiction that his entire life revolves around? I am willing to bet that he takes care of his diet, but is he aware that his job ruins the diets of others. Just by the fact that he has these two jobs, I would bet everything I have that, if he was confronted by this, we would just say "Oh, I never thought about that". 
He goes on to present the song that he believes is going to catapult him to fame "Friday night" his "original song". Naturally, he is asked what this song is about. "It's about Friday night", he replies as if it was the most obvious thing in the world. 
As he begins to sing, the camera pans out and we see what is behind him. A smoke machine, at the beginning of the video, we see our man giving instructions to some technicians about where and how to place said machine. Only a minute of video has gone by yet, I had completely forgotten about it. 
The saddest burst of smoke is expelled out of the machine. "Beck" turns around to check that everything is in order. Seeing that, I would have panicked, there's such little smoke... but "Beck", after looking at it, turns around with an unmatched expression of confidence. For a brief moment, you can see doubt in the faces of the judges. "Wait a second, is this guy actually good?". A small moment of unwavering confidence in himself is all it takes to transform an audience that doubts him into a instant of expectation. Is this the beginning of a new life for "Beck"? Were his dreams not fulfilled not because of lack of talent but because of unluckiness?  
{The song}
{The unexpected response}
{The aftermath - "Beck" achieving fame}
{The ability of "Beck" to laugh about himself, is he even aware that he is doing it?}
{A thought on the unrealized hopes and dreams of people}